.\" Euxis man page — generated for v0.0.2
.TH EUXIS 1 "2026-04-25" "v0.0.2" "Euxis Agent OS"
.SH NAME
euxis \- epistemic trust engine for software verification
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B euxis
.RI [ command ]
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ target ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B euxis
is a multi-agent verification system that produces epistemic verdicts on
software repositories. It orchestrates LLM agents across evidence pillars
(testing, security, architecture, documentation) and synthesizes a trust
verdict with confidence scoring.
.SH CORE COMMANDS
.TP
.B check \fR[\fItarget\fR]
Run standard verification. Use \fB\-\-triage\fR for flash mode or
\fB\-\-forensic\fR for deep analysis.
.TP
.B triage \fR[\fItarget\fR]
Quick flash-mode verification (2 agents, ~45s SLA).
.TP
.B review \fR[\fItarget\fR]
Standard verification (5 agents, ~180s SLA). Use \fB\-\-forensic\fR for
the full 11-agent sweep.
.TP
.B compare \fItarget\fR
A/B comparison against baseline verdicts.
.TP
.B stats
Display benchmark statistics from verdict history.
.TP
.B policy \fR[\fBshow\fR|\fBvalidate\fR|\fBcheck\fR]
Policy inspection, validation, and enforcement.
.TP
.B certify\-readiness \fR[\fItarget\fR]
18-domain certification readiness assessment with framework overlays
(general, SOC2, ISO 27001). Subcommands: \fBcontrols\fR, \fBreport\fR.
.TP
.B system\-card
Display the system transparency card (model roster, capabilities, security).
.SH SYSTEM COMMANDS
.TP
.B doctor
Diagnose installation health. Use \fB\-\-fix\fR to auto-repair.
.TP
.B install\fR, \fBupdate\fR, \fBupgrade\fR, \fBuninstall
Lifecycle management commands.
.TP
.B version
Display version information.
.SH FLEET COMMANDS
.TP
.B playbook \fR[\fIname\fR] \fR[\fItarget\fR]
Run a named verification playbook.
.TP
.B agent \fR[\fIagent-id\fR]
Interact with a single agent.
.TP
.B squad \fR[\fIsquad-name\fR]
Run a predefined agent squad.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-format \fR[\fBjson\fR|\fBsarif\fR]
Output format. Default: human-readable. Use \fBsarif\fR for CI/CD
integration with GitHub/GitLab security tabs.
.TP
.B \-\-fix
Request autofix suggestions alongside findings.
.TP
.B \-\-ci
CI mode: TUI to stderr, JSON to stdout, no escalation.
.TP
.B \-\-json
Emit structured JSON artifact.
.TP
.B \-\-strict
Enable strict mode (all gates blocking).
.TP
.B \-\-framework \fR[\fBgeneral\fR|\fBsoc2\fR|\fBiso27001\fR]
Framework overlay for certify-readiness.
.TP
.B \-\-provider \fIprovider\fR
Override provider selection (claude, gemini, openai, ollama).
.TP
.B \-\-local\-only
Force all routing to local Ollama instance.
.TP
.B \-\-human\-approve
Require human approval before finalizing verdict.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B EUXIS_HOME
Override the default data directory (~/.euxis).
.TP
.B ANTHROPIC_API_KEY\fR, \fBOPENAI_API_KEY\fR, \fBGEMINI_API_KEY
Provider API credentials.
.TP
.B EUXIS_DEFAULT_PROVIDER
Force a specific default provider.
.TP
.B EUXIS_LOCAL_ONLY
Set to \fB1\fR to route all requests through Ollama.
.TP
.B EUXIS_LOG_SANITIZE
Set to \fB0\fR to disable PII redaction in logs.
.SH ALIASES
.B quick\fR=triage, \fBdeep\fR=review, \fBdiag\fR=doctor,
.B metrics\fR=stats, \fBpb\fR=playbook, \fBverify\-all\fR=check
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Verdict: TRUSTED or TRUSTED WITH GAPS.
.TP
.B 1
Verdict: BLOCKED, INCONCLUSIVE, or CAUTION.
.TP
.B 2
No evidence collected or usage error.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B ~/.euxis/data/config/router.json
Provider routing configuration.
.TP
.B ~/.euxis/data/config/provider_strategy.json
Semantic task class routing strategy.
.TP
.B ~/.euxis/data/config/playbooks/
Verification playbook definitions.
.TP
.B ~/.euxis/data/runtime/sessions/
Verdict artifacts and session data.
.SH AUTHORS
Euxis contributors.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR claude (1),
.BR ollama (1),
.BR aider (1)
